# Exploring Value: How to Understand Others to Find and Create Real Value?

Concept of this chapter: Value

*The content of this chapter comes from Li Xiaolai's video sharing in 2020-07 on the topic "Value" in the series "See You in Seven Years".*

---

## What is Value? Where is Value?

Most people do not have a clear definition of value. This lack of definition leads to a blurred concept, and subsequently, unclear thinking and action.

Value can be understood as a critical need. If a need is significant to you, it has a high value. Similarly, if a need is important to others, it has a high value to them.

Two conclusions can be drawn from here:

1. Value is subjective

> This conclusion is in line with the [Subjective Theory of Value](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Subjective_theory_of_value) in [Austrian Economics](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Austrian_School)

2. Since value is subjective, the judgement of value depends on the recipient, not the giver.

A simple example: your friend gifts you something, a bracelet that is extremely precious to them. This unique bracelet was handmade by his decreased mother. Now that this bracelet is in your possession, how valuable is it to you?

> If you say this bracelet is so valuable to you, I have to ask you, how much are you willing to pay to buy it? 10,000 dollar? 100,000 dollar? ðŸ˜

## How to Create/Provide Value?

Knowing what value is important, but it's not enough. We also need to clarify a context.

In a previous article [Being Genuine](https://github.com/ericlee1778/writing/blob/main/english/Learning%20Note%20-%20See%20You%20in%20Seven%20Years%20series%20(from%20Li%20Xiaolai)/001.Being%20Genuine.md), we also mentioned that to attain lasting satisfaction from success, one needs to fulfill four aspects: Happiness, Achievement, Significant, Legacy. Each of these aspects has four classifications: Self, Family, Friends/Colleagues, Community/Society.

We can use these four classifications as the context: Self, Family, Friends/Colleagues, Community/Society.

Only by setting the context can we think more targetedly about the issue of value. Our thinking will then have guiding significance.

For contemplation on self-value:

> * What kind of person with what kind of quality is most valuable to you?
>
> * What abilities create the most value in your perspective?

For individuals, **self-learning ability** might be the most important because:

> All skills can be learned.

Self-learning ability is the cornerstone of all abilities. As long as you have the ability to learn, theoretically, there's nothing you can't do because if you don't know how to do it, you can learn it.

More importantly:

> We will undoubtedly learn faster as we learn more.

As we learn more and more, our web of knowledge and abilities will gradually form. What we learn in one field can be used in another, and vice versa. This is what we call integration, or the network effect of knowledge and abilities.

The network effect refers to the disproportionate increase in the value of a network with the addition of each new node.

Another critical quality might be **stay calmn** because:

> Life is made up of countless choices, and emotions affect the choices we made.

We've all experienced loss of emotional control, perhaps due to anger, sadness, anxiety, or other negative emotions. These emotions lead us to make impulsive or irrational choices that can cause trouble or harm to ourselves and others.

However:

> Is bursting out with negative emotions useful? Can it solve problems?

Outbursts of emotions cannot solve problems. What we can do is not let these emotions explode and affect us and those around us.

Besides deep breathing, how can we stay calm?

When negative emotions arise, ask yourself these questions:

> 1. This is how I think... Is my thinking correct?
>
> 2. This is how he/she thinks... Is his/her thinking correct?
>
> 3. If he/she is also correct, why does it conflict with me?
>
>	    1. If I look from his/her perspective, am I really correct?
>
>	    2. If I am wrong, should I change or not?
>
> 4. If he/she is wrong, why doesn't he/she know it?
>
>	    1. Should I tell him/her?
>
>		    1. How should I tell him/her?
> 
>			    1. Will he/she understand?
>
>			    2. If he/she doesn't understand, what should I do?

When you ask these questions, your metacognition is activated. You start to reflect on your own thoughts.

Starting from the other's perspective and thinking from their stance, you engage in a perspective-taking exercise with your metacognition. When we can understand others' needs and think about what we can do for them, and eventually accomplish it, value is created.

When we engage in perspective-taking, we understand that different positions lead to different viewpoints. Interestingly, the differences in fundamental beliefs can lead to entirely different results derived from logically rigorous deductions. This is the mirror world mentioned in previous articles.

Those who can learn independently and stay calm are the most valuable.

For family members, what is the most important value we can give? What is the most important thing between family members?

> Support is the most important

Often times, our actions do not support our family members, but hinder them.

The husband may want to start a business, but the wife painstakingly advises him not to do anything foolish; the wife wants to work, but the husband insists that she should stay at home to take care of the children. The child wants to go to college, but the parents can't afford it.

All support eventually can't avoid the topic of money.

Support among family members is not just as simple as emotional support, but also requires financial support. For example, the child wants to go to college, but the parents can't afford it. Parents can't just verbally encourage, they also need to show support through actions. Without sufficient financial support, where does the support come from?

Financial support: to support the actualization of family members' dreams and not become a roadblock in their journey of realizing their dreams.

For friends and colleagues, what is the most important value we can give? What is the most important thing between friends and colleagues?

> It is still support

However, for friends and colleagues, what we need to provide is emotional support.

Many people get it wrong by providing economic support to colleagues/friends, hoping to build good relationships with money, but in the end, the relationship doesn't improve. The other party eventually either feels implicitly coerced by you and gradually distances from you, or takes your contributions for granted.

Financial support is the duty and responsibility of their families. It's inherently problematic when someone who can't get financial support from their family comes to us for money.

For emotional support of friends and colleagues, we don't need to express our opinions in lengthy speeches. They usually don't lack such opinions, and since everyone's values are different, the divergence of your starting points may make your advice irrelevant to them. Your friends and colleagues are not stupid, they can think of what you can think of, even more profoundly, because the choices they ultimately make are closely related to their personal interests.

Encouragement might be the rarest resource in the world.

The previous question template implies that we should consider what the other person hopes to get from us?

This is a universal principle on how to provide value to others.

Think about it, after long consideration, you finally make a decision that is not recognized by your family and those around you. At this time, you turn to your best friend, tell him/her your thoughts, what do you really want to hear from him/her? Are you tired of hearing cliched advice? Or is it affirmation and encouragement?

Emotional support: listen, ask questions (to understand), and encourage.

For the community/society, what is the most important value? What is the most important thing within a community/society?

> The most important are contributors/service providers

This does not mean that you need to serve everyone and dedicate your life. Helping others to the best of your abilities, making them better, adding a bit more hope to the world, that is the value society hopes for most.

One who helps others, helps oneself. As we help others, we also help ourselves. When our capabilities can help others, it has a tremendous impact on our sense of long-term satisfaction.
