# Exploring the Path to Character Enhancement: Why and How to Shape a Better Self

Concept of this chapter: Character

*The content of this chapter comes from Li Xiaolai's video sharing in 2021-02 on the topic "Character" in the series "See You in Seven Years".*

---

The concept of character, although self-assessment is important, it may be more likely that others have a greater say. Only when others praise our character can our character be considered good.

If the majority of people around you agree that your character is good, then your character is likely very excellent.

There is a phenomenon that as we age, our character usually improves. The character in middle age is often better than when we were young.

This is probably because our abilities and strengths increase as we age. Things we couldn't do when we were young, we now have the ability to achieve. Moreover, as we age, we see things more clearly, and we do better in interpersonal relations.

This shows that character is not an innate quality, but is likely to be a quality cultivated after birth.

***So, what prerequisites are needed to have a good character?***

Character is based on strength. If we don't have enough strength, we can only care about ourselves, we simply can't take care of others, and we might even hurt others unintentionally.

Take a simple example. When people around us ask for our help, because we are busy and tired, we can only appear powerless. This will leave an impression of irresponsibility or indifference on others, and it will also make them feel disappointed.

When our strength is insufficient, it's not just a lack of money, it will also affect our emotions and ways of thinking. This concept was well-discussed in [Limitation](https://github.com/ericlee1778/writing/blob/main/english/Learning%20Note%20-%20See%20You%20in%20Seven%20Years%20series%20(from%20Li%20Xiaolai)/008.Limitation.md) chapter.  

For example, when we are struggling in life, we may think that it's already hard enough just to live well in this society. So, we might develop an attitude of minding our own business. If we unconsciously accept this mindset, it will gradually become our habit. Habitually refusing others, this habit will make our default mode become "no". Therefore, a lot of the time we become too lazy to think, and instinctively reject others.

Gradually, we become a person with poor character in the eyes of others. The human brain is very good at [rationalization](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rationalization_(psychology)), which means we will find suitable excuses for our wrong behavior, such as being busy or tired. This could lead to negative outcomes and form a kind of self-fulfilling prophecy.

Building up character is essentially equivalent to accumulate wealth. This is a rather despairing conclusion. Without money, we can't help others. Only when we have wealth can we have the discretion to decide whether or not to provide help. This control over life is very important for our health and happiness.

The degree of our connection with the world and with others largely determines the quality and happiness of our lives. When we want to help people and have the ability to do so, this in itself is satisfying.

However, for some people, as they age, their character does not improve, but instead becomes worse. Even though their strength has increased, their character is flawed. Why is this?

This could be a reasonable explanation:

> ***They have depraving during their growth process.***

As mentioned earlier, due to the lack of ability when we are young, we can only care for ourselves, and we often rely on belief to maintain the most basic behavior norms, not to harm others.

So how to avoid depravation? An important principle is **Never do unjust and guilty things**. Often, we overlook this point because it seems doesn't matter, but once we have the first time, there will be a second, a third.

**Never do unjust and guilty things** has another deeper meaning, that is to completely eliminate the possibility of being caught by others. In the short term, this may not seem important. However, in the long run, as we grow, our reputation becomes very important, very valuable. Past wrong behaviors will become our stains. In today's society, almost all wrongful doing can be revealed on the internet.

Once caught by others, another possibility is to be forced by others to do something against our will. This explains why some people accidentally fall into traps during their growth process and eventually deprave.

Sticking to the principle of **Never do unjust and guilty things**, [not believing in evil](https://github.com/ericlee1778/writing/blob/main/english/Learning%20Note%20-%20See%20You%20in%20Seven%20Years%20series%20(from%20Li%20Xiaolai)/003.Not%20Believing%20in%20the%20Evil.md), doing right things, will become our most powerful talisman on the path of growth. It effectively helps us to automatically avoid various pitfalls and keeps us away from the fate of sinking and depraving.

This may seem overly simple, but we know that it's because it's [simple](https://github.com/ericlee1778/writing/blob/main/english/Learning%20Note%20-%20See%20You%20in%20Seven%20Years%20series%20(from%20Li%20Xiaolai)/005.Simplicity.md) and not complicated that we can stick to it for a long time, and it's only then that we can achieve such effective results.
