# Optimism: The Decisive Factor in Enhancing Life Quality?

Concept of this chapter: Optimism

*The content of this chapter comes from Li Xiaolai's video sharing in 2021-07 on the topic "Optimism" in the series "See You in Seven Years".*

---

## Response Patterns

In our [previous chapter "Personality"](https://github.com/ericlee1778/writing/blob/main/english/Learning%20Note%20-%20See%20You%20in%20Seven%20Years%20series%20(from%20Li%20Xiaolai)/013.Personality.md), we mentioned that personality is not entirely predetermined at birth. However, certain aspects of personality, or rather, response patterns, are influenced by innate factors.

For instance, if a person's genetics endow them with a physique superior to their peers, they may be more confident.

Apart from innate factors, our environment also affects our response patterns. For example, growing up in either a poor or wealthy family environment can shape children's response patterns. Similarly, the quality of education, including the caliber of teachers, impacts a child's development.

We inevitably face another environmental factor - **society**. We are often instilled with meaningless, or even harmful, concepts. These notions may have been passed down from several generations ago, being constantly drilled into each new generation.

Take "*stock investing*" for example. We watch TV or hear news about some people going bankrupt, losing their families, or even committing suicide because of stock investing. Consequently, we are indoctrinated with this notion: stocks are taboo. This concept is widely spread in Chinese culture.

Similarly, news reports highlighting the extreme wealth disparity in certain countries, leading to riots, can be an example. Media outlets, in their quest to attract traffic, edit videos and guide audiences to think in specific directions, such as contrasting the lives of the rich and poor - the wealthy wasting food while the poor starve, etc. We also see stories about the rich evading taxes or exploiting workers. Hence, we are imbued with another notion:

> *Capitalism is evil, money is the root of all evils.*

So why discuss all this? The goal is to convey the concept:

> ***Cultivating positive response patterns is not an overnight process***

We will face many obstacles, and sometimes even experience temporary setbacks. This is particularly apparent in the cultivation of certain response patterns, such as the topic of this chapter: ***Optimism***.

---

## Optimism

Optimism is also a response pattern. It is not predestined at birth; it can be cultivated later in life and can be considered as a skill. However, optimism might be the ability most susceptible to environmental and other influences.

Especially since 2020, the consecutive events we have faced have made it challenging to maintain optimism. We first encountered the coronavirus and thought it would soon pass, only to have the virus mutate, forcing us to get vaccinated repeatedly. Then, just as we were emerging from the pandemic, the Russia-Ukraine war broke out, followed by a significant increase in commodity prices that made everyone re-recognize the terror of inflation. Furthermore, countries started to implement monetary tightening policies, causing a sharp rise in interest rates, and those with mortgages suddenly found their monthly payments noticeably increased. Subsequently, a banking credit crisis erupted, causing widespread anxiety.

The above only covers significant economic events in recent years and does not include what's happening around us. The actual situation might be more pessimistic.

Optimism can be said to be a very difficult ability to cultivate. Some might ask, what are the benefits of being optimistic? What's the advantage for those who always seem to be cheerful?

For an individual, optimism's most direct impact is on health, including both physical and mental health. Another effect is that pessimism can lead to a drastic decrease in our quality of life and happiness. Pessimistic people find it hard to be genuinely happy. Worse still, with the advancement of technology, our average lifespan is increasing, and we may even achieve digital immortality in our lifetime. Imagine if our lifespans continue to increase, but people become more and more pessimistic, unable to feel happiness, how terrifying would that be.

The conclusion is:

> ***Optimism is of great importance and will become increasingly crucial.***

---

## The Methodology of Optimism

So, how should we cultivate optimism? We mentioned earlier that maintaining long-term optimism is extremely difficult because we are easily influenced by our environment. This analysis itself is instructive.

Because once we understand this, we can derive a thinking framework, and we can reverse-engineer this problem by turning it into - "How can we avoid pessimism?"

By avoiding pessimism, or securing the foundation for optimism, we can gradually cultivate the ability to be optimistic. As cultivating positive response patterns and abilities requires time to accumulate, we need to avoid falling into traps in the process.

The methodology of ensuring optimism/avoiding pessimism:

> 1. Physical Health
> 2. Mental Health
> 3. Long-term Relationships
> 4. Wealth Accumulation
> 5. Confidence in Growth

---

### Physical Health

Physical health is closely related to maintaining long-term optimism. If we are plagued by illness every day, we will feel the world is not friendly to us. When we suffer from serious illness, we inevitably ask ourselves: Why me? Why do I have to endure this pain? Why can't I be like others?

Our physical health often limits our actions and thoughts. Due to health issues, we may lack the courage to try new things. Speaking from my own experience, I used to suffer from severe back and shoulder pain, to the extent that I was afraid to try higher-paying, more intense work for fear of exacerbating the pain. Chronic diseases can also affect our mental health.

### Mental Health

This concept has been repeatedly mentioned. Comparison may be the most important factor affecting mental health. Usually, we only compare ourselves to those around us and seldom with those far from us, like celebrities, because they are too far ahead. The outcomes of comparisons are often pessimistic and tend to make the comparer dissatisfied with their own life. We may even fall into a trap. There's a very famous law in business, [Goodhart's law](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Goodhart%27s_law), simply put: 

> *"When a measure becomes a target, it ceases to be a good measure."*

This means, when we make comparison our goal, our actions become distorted. Often deviating from the direction we should be striving towards, we may only discover upon achieving the goal that it was not what we truly wanted. Many people fall into such a cycle: comparison leading to pessimism, using comparison to stimulate oneself, forcing oneself to accomplish certain things, only to find that it's not what they really wanted, leading to increased pessimism.

### Having Long-term Relationships

Humans are social animals - it's in our nature. If one does not have at least one healthy long-term relationship, they can feel incredibly lonely. Our sense of happiness is largely derived from our close connections to the world.

The people we are closest to are undoubtedly our parents, and maintaining a good relationship with them significantly guarantees our quality of life. In previous chapters, we've discussed a concept: [Accompany family](https://github.com/ericlee1778/writing/blob/main/english/Learning%20Note%20-%20See%20You%20in%20Seven%20Years%20series%20(from%20Li%20Xiaolai)/007.Accompany%20family.md).

Optimism isn't something that, once acquired, is owned forever without experiencing pessimism. Many times, we still feel pessimistic, but when you know that your parents will support you, you can better cope with setbacks and face the future with more courage.

In the **Accompany family** chapter, we mentioned the concept of living without regrets. By applying the same concept at here, as parents, if we could stick to one principle - "maintain a good relationship with our children, no matter what, until the end" - then this will effectively ensure their optimism, as there will be fewer regrets in their lives.

### The Accumulation of Wealth

Life is realistic; we need money, and our families need money too. Wealth doesn't necessarily make you optimistic, but poverty is undoubtedly a significant factor leading to pessimism. Making money is crucial. When some people hear others tell them they should work hard to make money, their first reaction is: "Money isn't everything, we can't always focus on money, and become slaves to it." This statement is correct from one perspective but could be wrong from another, especially when a person can't even make ends meet.

The basic wealth necessary to ensure optimism should not only meet our needs for life but should also grow over time. The wealth mentioned here refers to purchasing power, considering the factor of inflation, rather than just a specific amount of money. As we've previously mentioned in chapter [**Principles**](https://github.com/ericlee1778/writing/blob/main/english/Learning%20Note%20-%20See%20You%20in%20Seven%20Years%20series%20(from%20Li%20Xiaolai)/004.Principles.md), the average annual inflation rate of major countries is about 6%. With this as a reference, this means we need to increase our existing wealth by at least 6% each year.

### The Confidence of Growth

Once you step out of the ivory tower and into business world, you'll find many people have stopped learning. It seems that there is a boundary in the life of many people; before having a job, we read and learn, but after having a job, we no longer need to continue learning. The work of most people is monotonous; once they become familiar with their jobs, they mechanically repeat similar things and essentially stop progressing.

Growth, most of the time, depends on our accumulation. Where we place our attention is what we accumulate.

Many people show a sense of helplessness when facing setbacks. In reality, it's because they've cultivated a habit of halting growth, limited by their mindset, and cannot imagine they can improve and overcome current challenges through learning. You might often hear people saying: "It's too late, starting to learn now is too late." "Ww can't do anything... That's just life..." These statements are characteristics of a fixed mindset.

Why can't most people maintain long-term optimism? Even if they force a smile, that's just blind optimism, which doesn't solve the fundamental problem and will revert back to the original state sooner or later.

In society, at least over 50% of people don't focus on diet and exercise, so their bodies are unhealthy; they compare themselves with others all the time, so their mentality is unhealthy; their relationships with family are subpar, and because they've stopped growing, their wealth cannot continuously accumulate and grow. This is the current state of most people, and it's the root cause why they cannot maintain optimism in the long term.

These four aspects that ensure optimism all have one thing in common: **a sense of security in life**.

---

## Hope: Could be the Most Important Thing in Life

Sometimes we see people who, despite living a tough life currently with no savings and are poor, are still very optimistic and work very hard to escape their current state. Because they have confidence in themselves, they believe their future will get better and better, and they indeed have the ability to get out of their predicament. They hold hope for their lives, believing that the current difficulties are temporary and will improve once overcome.

There's a film I've watched no less than three times, [**"The Shawshank Redemption"**](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Shawshank_Redemption). The core value in the movie, I believe, is **hope**. We must maintain hope for our future, as hope is our redemption.

In the past year (2023), I've often read stories from Greek mythology, and one famous myth is Pandora's Box.

The story of Pandora's Box comes from ancient Greek mythology. The story goes:

> *When the Titan Prometheus stole fire to bestow upon humanity, endowing them with wisdom and survival skills, this angered the gods. Therefore, Zeus, the king of the gods, devised a plan to punish humans. He ordered Hephaestus, the god of fire and forge, to craft a beautiful woman, who was named Pandora. The gods gifted Pandora with various gifts, including the persuasive charm of Hermes, the beauty and allure of Aphrodite, and a mysterious box from Hephaestus, with the explicit instruction that it must never be opened.*
>
> *Pandora was given to Prometheus's brother, Epimetheus. Despite Prometheus's warning to his brother not to accept any gifts from the gods, Epimetheus was beguiled by Pandora's beauty, and he took her as his wife.*
>
> *However, Pandora couldn't resist her curiosity about the box. She opened it, unleashing all evils—plagues, death, poverty, war, disease, ignorance, and various calamities—that flew out into every corner of the world. Terrified, Pandora hastily closed the box, but it was too late. But that was not the worst outcome. Taking pity on humanity, the goddess of wisdom, Athena, had secretly added "hope" into the box. However, because Pandora closed the box too quickly, "hope" remained trapped inside.*

To some, this might just be a story. But from this narrative, I see the significance of hope. Bear in mind that stories are created by people, based on their understanding of the world within the context of their era. Does this mean that even over 2000 years ago, people held hope in high regard?

If this assumption is correct, and if hope still holds such importance after thousands of years, then this bears profound implications for us.

Because, is it easier for optimists or pessimists to maintain hope? The answer lies within each of us.

Ultimately, we will realize that optimism is both a capability and a economic capacity. Our own capacity needs to be substantial enough to persistently maintain optimism. On one hand, optimism requires the support of economic capacity; without economic capacity, we cannot stay optimistic in the long run. On the other hand, optimism is a capability that needs cultivation.

Many people can be optimistic when life is smooth sailing. However, when faced with difficulties, maintaining optimism can be challenging.

Anyone can enjoy good days. What's truly remarkable is the ability to make the best out of difficult days.

Why do we need to be optimistic? Or rather, why should we harbor hope towards life?

Because no matter what happens, life goes on, doesn't it?

Regardless of how severe a pandemic might be, how terrifying war can get, how high inflation soars, or how tough life becomes, we still have to continue living, right?

Since we all have to keep living anyway, why not choose to live with optimism and hope?