# Exploring Value: How to Understand Others to Find and Create Real Value?

*This article is based on the content from a video lecture: Value, delivered by Li Xiaolai in the series 'See You In Seven Years' in July 2020.*

---

## What is Value? Where is Value?

Most people do not have a clear definition of value. This lack of definition leads to a blurred concept, and subsequently, unclear thinking and action.

Value can be understood as a critical need. If a need is significant to you, it has a high value. Similarly, if a need is important to others, it has a high value to them.

Two conclusions can be drawn from here:

1. Value is subjective

> This conclusion is in line with the [Subjective Theory of Value](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Subjective_theory_of_value) in [Austrian Economics](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Austrian_School)

2. Since value is subjective, the judgement of value depends on the recipient, not the giver.

A simple example: your friend gifts you something, a bracelet that is extremely precious to them. This unique bracelet was handmade by his late mother. Now that this bracelet is in your possession, how valuable is it to you?

> If you say this bracelet is of high value, I have to ask you, how much are you willing to pay to buy it? 10,000? 100,000? ðŸ˜

## How to Create/Provide Value?

Knowing what value is important, but it's not enough. We also need to clarify a scope (Context).

In a previous article [Being Genuine](https://github.com/ericlee1778/writing/blob/main/chinese/%E7%AC%94%E8%AE%B0%20-%20%E7%9B%B8%E7%BA%A6%E4%B8%83%E5%B9%B4%E5%90%8E%20(%E8%A7%86%E9%A2%91%E8%AF%BE%E7%A8%8B%E6%9D%A5%E6%BA%90%E4%BA%8E%E6%9D%8E%E7%AC%91%E6%9D%A5%E8%80%81%E5%B8%88)/1.%E4%B8%8D%E8%A3%85.md), we also mentioned that to attain lasting satisfaction from success, one needs to fulfill four aspects: Happiness, Achievement, Importance, Legacy. Each of these aspects has four classifications: Self, Family, Friends/Colleagues, Community/Society.

We can use these four classifications: Self, Family, Friends/Colleagues, Community/Society.

Only by setting the scope can we think more targetedly about the issue of value. Our thinking will then have guiding significance.

For contemplation on self-value:

> * What kind of person is most valuable to you?
>
> * What abilities can create the most value for you?

For individuals, **self-learning ability** might be the most important because:

> All skills can be learned.

Self-learning ability is the cornerstone of all abilities. As long as you have the ability to learn, theoretically, there's nothing you can't do because if you don't know how, you can learn it.

More importantly:

> We will undoubtedly learn faster as we learn more.

As we learn more and more, our web of knowledge and abilities will gradually form. What we learn in one field can be used in another, and vice versa. This is what we call integration, or the network effect of knowledge and abilities.

The network effect refers to the disproportionate increase in the value of a network with the addition of each new node.

Another critical quality might be **calmness** because:

> Life is made up of countless choices, and emotions affect these choices.

We've all experienced loss of emotional control, perhaps due to anger, sadness, anxiety, or other negative emotions. These emotions lead us to make impulsive or irrational choices that can cause trouble or harm to ourselves and others.

However:

> Is bursting out with negative emotions useful? Can it solve problems?

Outbursts of emotions cannot solve problems. What we can do is not let these emotions explode and affect us and those around us.

Besides deep breathing, how can we stay calm?
