# Practicing Leadership: The Power of Commitment, Reputation, and Long-term Perspective

Concept of this chapter: Leadership

*The content of this chapter comes from Li Xiaolai's video sharing in 2020-11 on the topic "Leadership" in the series "Seven Years Later".*

---

Since the birth of human civilization, one of the most important revolutions that bring prosperity is undoubtedly the transition from a nomadic lifestyle to an agricultural one. This transformation not only significantly improved productivity and freed up our time, but it also provided us with a lot of surplus time to engage in other activities. However, let's go back to that time and imagine, what would the scene be like when the first person or group of people began to farm? Would this process be easy and smooth?

In fact, to achieve this transformation, some necessary prerequisites must be met:

> *Firstly, the person must have a certain amount of surplus or savings. As we know, farming is a long-term activity that does not bring any benefit in the short term. If a person does not have a savings, he cannot persist until the day of harvest, nor can he cope with all kinds of unexpected difficulties and challenges that may be encountered during the farming process.*
>
> *Secondly, one's efficiency must be high enough. Only with high efficiency can he accumulate enough resources in a short period of time to support his life while devoting himself into long-term agricultural activities.*

So, how does it relates to the leadership?

Leadership can be defined as **the ability to fulfill long-term commitments**. When we make a promise, we undertake a debt, and the collateral for this debt is our reputation, which is our asset.

> ***Leadership is the ability to serve as an role model and inspire people to act alongside you.***

Production are risky and may fail. Failure means starting over, and we will lose credibility.

Those who originally acted with us will most likely not stay and continue with us to start over, because they also have to live, they may not have savings, and their efficiency may not be high.

However, when we accomplish one thing after another, repeated successes will accumulate our reputation, and people will trust us more. Even if we fail later, they will think that it is only temporary, and we will once again climb up from the bottom.

If we become such a person, our reputation will become a very valuable asset. No matter what we want to do, we will get a lot of help and support, and the result is that the probability of success increase.

Let's look at leadership from another perspective:

> ***Longtermism***

Leadership, as mentioned above, is the ability to fulfill long-term commitments. One of the main reasons that allows them to fulfill long-term commitments is that they have foresight. What is foresight?

**Foresight is the ability to see far and long accurately.**

Only when we can see far and long enough can we discover and have the courage to do the right things: the things that may greatly improve productivity.

There is a theory in economics called [Time Preference Theory](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Time_preference), and psychology also has a theory expressing the same concept, called [Delayed Gratification](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Delayed_gratification).

The time preference theory and delayed gratification say that some things have a short-term effect but have no long-term effect; while some things do not have a short-term effect, but have a huge long-term effect.

When we do not have savings, we cannot bear the risk of failure and can only choose things that can see benefits in the short term, because we cannot bear the risk and consequences of failure, our time preference is locked in the present. In this case, the time preference is high, because we think that the value of current time is higher than the value of future time.

But for people with leadership, their time preference is low, they can accept not seeing effects in the short term for the sake of long-term benefits. This is longtermism.

> ***Longtermism is the active lowering of one's time preference, giving up some short-term benefits in exchange for greater long-term benefits.***

I wrote an article about children's education in the past. The article mentioned the concept of **long-sightedness**, which is what we call **longtermism** today. We should cultivate children's long-term perspective. To instill a long-term perspective in children, we must first achieve it ourselves. Being a role model is an effective form of education, children learn by watching their parents, demonstrating good role models is always the most effective teaching.

We can plant trees with children, learn a musical instrument, learn a sport together. Do some things that do not see effect in the short term, but will bring great changes in the long run. In this way, they will realize that as long as we persistently and repeatedly do one thing, we can do it better and better. Longtermism is the foundation of leadership. Only by doing things well enough can we accumulate reputation. With reputation, others will be willing to follow us.
