# The Art of Accompanying Family: The Happiness Code You Might Overlook

Concept of this chapter: Accompany Family

*The content of this chapter comes from Li Xiaolai's video sharing in 2020-12 on the topic "Accompany Family" in the series "See You in Seven Years".*

---

When discussing the subject of happiness, there is one standard that runs through all the time, and that is our interpersonal relationships. Numerous scientific studies have clearly demonstrated that there is a significant positive correlation between interpersonal relationships and our sense of happiness. However, this kind of relationship doesn't mean that you'll be happier if you have more friends. It emphasizes whether we are sincerely invested in a relationship, whether we find satisfaction in it, and whether our efforts are reciprocated by others, thus creating a win-win situation.

Without a doubt, humans are social animals, it's our nature. Social interaction is one of the basic needs of humans. Only a few people can live alone without family, friends, and partners. We should not resist this nature, as that would be a unnecessary struggle.

In life, the most painful feeling is to feel disconnected from the world, as if everything has nothing to do with oneself. People with such feelings can easily fall into the abyss of despair, even contemplating suicide. In life, the people closest to us are our families. They are our most reliable support. When everyone else leaves you, it is often only the family that stays with us.

Do we have to wait until we lose them to learn to appreciate them? Do we have to wait until we truly lose them to start regretting, and let this become a lifelong regret?

In our life, there are two resources that are extremely scarce:

> 1. Your time
> 2. The time you spend with your loved ones

This is why accompanying your family is an extremely important and worthwhile thing to do. Even if it's just to make our lives has lesser regret, it's worth it.

How can we accompany our family? Since our goal is to make our lives without regrets, or "no regrets", then how should we accompany them in a way they most need? What should we do to make them happy which in turn make us happy also?

We can divide our family members into three categories: the elder generation, peers, and the younger generation.

---

## Elder Generation

Many people find it difficult to communicate with the elder generation, they perceive a generational gap. This is unavoidable, we can't avoid the gap between us and the elder generation. But we don't need to say too many sweet words. If we just spend our time on the following two things, we're doing enough. In the long run, actions always speak louder than words.

> 1. Let them know you're doing everything you can to take care of them
> 2. Let them know you're all right

Your parents do not necessarily need you to provide them with plenty of money. What they need is just enough, so that when they talk with their friends, they do not have to lie out of fear of losing face, that their child is financially supporting them. People inevitably compare themselves with others, your parents are no exception. Comparison can lead to hurt, we cannot control whether they compare or not, we can only ensure that their self-esteem is not compromised in the process.

What they truly need is for you to keep them in your heart and consider their needs. To be more specific, for example in daily life, think more on their behalf and help them with things they might find inconvenient.

For instance, help them up and down the stairs, pay more attention to the road conditions when they cross the street. Drive slower when taking them out. Informing them when you are going out, so they don't have to worry. When coming back to home, ask them if they need anything that you can help them to buy. Regularly let them know your situation and everything is fine so they don't have to worry. When you travel far, keep them updated on your itinerary, letting them know that you are safe. These are not difficult tasks; they only require a bit more attention from us.

## Peers

For our peers, i.e., our siblings and partners, what we need to do is communicate. Your partner is the closest person in your non-blood relationship. If one is not kind to their partner, they will likely not be kind to others either.

Living together, there will undoubtedly be many frictions between partners. If these issues are not voiced, they will become like thorns in one's heart, causing discomfort. In the long run, it can lead to estrangement.

We should not only communicate when problems arise but also engage in frequent communication. Allow both parties to understand each other's recent thoughts and ideas, synchronizing the frequency to the same channel. This is what we often refer to as being in tune with each other, where one can understand the other's intended meaning without explicit explanation. This kind of understanding does not come automatically with time spent together; it requires both parties to cultivate slowly. And this is a lifelong practice, not a destination, it requires our continuous effort.

There are many methodologies for communication. The simplest, most straightforward, and effective method is to “focus on communication, and repeat the communication”. We need to pay attention to communication and communicate frequently. Often, we assume that the other person has understood our subtext, or that we have understood the other person's subtext, but in reality, misunderstandings exist between us.

Looking back at our parents, we know that even long-married couple who have been together for decades face such inevitable circumstances. how can we expect it is not the case for us?

## Younger Generation

For our younger generation, i.e., our children, when accompanying them, we do not need to lecture them with profound truths or provide too much guidance. What we really need to do is to be a good role model, and as they observe our behavior, they will naturally imitate our actions and habits.

If you want to develop any good habits and teach them any good concepts, then you should take him to do those things that will develop those qualities. No matter how much you say, it will never be as effective as serving a good role model, taking them along with you to do things, and accompanying them in their growth.

---

## Conclusion

Returning to our original topic, happiness, you'll realize that whether it is accompanying the elders, communicating with peers, or being a role model for the younger generation, all improve our sense of happiness by enhancing the quality of our interpersonal relationships.

May everyone cherish every moment with their family, imprinting deep love into every instance of accompaniment. The most precious resource in this world is our time, and accompaniment is the most enduring confession of love. Let us co-create more happy memories with our family, fill our lives with love and warmth, and leave no regrets in our lives.