# Perception and Overcoming Limitations: Persist in Doing Good, the Path to Success

Concept of this chapter: Limitations

*The content of this chapter comes from Li Xiaolai's video sharing in 2021-01 on the topic "Limitations" in the series "See You in Seven Years".*

---

Humans are naturally born with various limitations, such as vision, hearing, physiology, and so on. These limitations affect not only our bodies but also our psychology. We easily set mental barriers for ourselves, preventing ourselves from making progress.

For example, at work, we may find smooth talker, who make a living through their smooth talking skills. We're not short of such examples around us, leading us to think that success relies on luck and networking, rather than on capabilities and abilities.

This is actually a misconception. We often fall into the limitations of our surrounding environment, regarding the events happening around us as unquestionable facts.

## Lessons from Coffee

What is coffee made of? Most people would say it's water and coffee grounds. Water makes up more than 95%, while coffee grounds only account for 5%. What we see the most is water, just as we frequently witness people relying on luck and networking to get by. However, what truly determines the taste of coffee is the coffee grounds, just like what truly determines success is personal abilities.

Ask yourself, do you prefer to work with good people? Or bad people? Would you rather work with people who are capable, or with people who are not?

We can draw a conclusion:

> ***Bad people or incapable people cannot go far.*** 

To go far, in the end, we all need to eradicate all bad habits.

If we want to learn the secrets of success, we should learn from those at the top, and see how they do it. The most successful investors and entrepreneurs in the world do not make money through relationships, but through their professional knowledge and innovative thinking. Their personal charisma and [leadership](https://github.com/ericlee1778/writing/blob/main/english/Learning%20Note%20-%20See%20You%20in%20Seven%20Years%20series%20(from%20Li%20Xiaolai)/6.Leadership.md) are also based on their personal abilities. Because they can continuously fulfill long-term commitments, making themselves and people around them better, others are willing to follow them.

When we are confined by our own thinking, we tend to believe in some wrong concepts, ultimately leading us to become what we don't want to be. This is the [self-fulfilling prophecy](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Self-fulfilling_prophecy). We can choose to believe that doing good will bring greater and more lasting achievements, or we can choose to believe that doing evil will bring more benefits. Different beliefs and choices will lead to different results.

Many people see that bad people seem to live better, so they think there is no point in being good, lack the motivation to improve, and even give up their principles and ideals. Such people will never see that good people can also live well, or even better.

Honesty is an example. We all know honesty is important, but few can stick to it. Because honesty is too hard to maintain, in the short term it doesn't pay off and may even be exploited or deceived by others. Many people feel that being dishonest is actually more beneficial to them.

We are often like this, limited by the bad environment we are in, leading to a bad conclusion that we should not reach, but which can be confirmed by self-fulfilling prophecy, and we use this bad conclusion to guide our life. Then, it becomes a vicious cycle.

Limitations are unavoidable, we all have limitations. So how can we better deal with limitations? I believe there is a methodology that can guide us:

> ***Do good things, and stop worrying about the future.***

What are good things? Here, good things do not refer to charitable acts or charity, but refer to those things that are beneficial to oneself and others, and those things that have value in the long run.

What does it mean not to worry about the future? The path we choose may be difficult at the beginning, and may not have immediate results, but we do not ask about the results, we just stick to this principle. This path will become wider and wider, until one day we suddenly realize that because of our choice, serendipity have actually happened onto us.

From another aspect, this phrase also means to use the right methods and do the right things.

Don't take shortcuts, don't do illegal or unethical things, take the right path, that's the right method; doing good is the right thing.
